docs: re-add `Coming from OpenAPI` (#2307)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/getting-started/coming-from-openapi.md

---

> title: "Coming from OpenAPI and beyond"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Coming from OpenAPI"
```

weight: 20
---

> If you're coming from OpenAPI, you must know that AsyncAPI [started as an adaptation of the OpenAPI specification](https://medium.com/asyncapi/whats-new-on-asyncapi-lots-2d9019a1869d). We wanted to have as much compatibility as possible between the two so users could reuse parts in both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're coming from OpenAPI, you must know that AsyncAPI [started as an adaptation of the OpenAPI specification](https://medium.com/asyncapi/whats-new-on-asyncapi-lots-2d9019a1869d). AsyncAPI wanted to be as compatible as possible with OpenAPI so that users could reuse parts in both.
```

> Prior AsyncAPI `3.0.0` you could find lots of similarities between OpenAPI and AsyncAPI. Just bear in mind that in the world of event-driven architectures, you have more than one protocol and therefore some things are different. Check out the following comparison chart, inspired by [Darrel Miller's blog post](https://www.openapis.org/news/blogs/2016/10/tdc-structural-improvements-explaining-30-spec-part-2):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before AsyncAPI `3.0.0`, you could find many similarities between OpenAPI and AsyncAPI. Remember that in the world of event-driven architectures, you have more than one protocol; therefore, some things are different. Check out the following comparison chart, inspired by [Darrel Miller's blog post](https://www.openapis.org/news/blogs/2016/10/tdc-structural-improvements-explaining-30-spec-part-2):
```

import OpenAPIComparison from '../../../../components/OpenAPIComparison'

<OpenAPIComparison className="my-8" />

> Starting with AsyncAPI `3.0.0` specification change more and is less similar to OpenAPI to enable more flexibility. You can notice the biggest change if the channel structure, where operation is separated from it. It is like you would detach operation from paths in OpenAPI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable more flexibility, the AsyncAPI `3.0.0` specification changes more and is less similar to OpenAPI starting with this version. The biggest change is in the channel structure, where operations are separated from it. It is like detaching operations from paths in OpenAPI. 
```

import OpenAPIComparisonV3 from '../../../../components/OpenAPIComparisonV3'

<OpenAPIComparisonV3 className="my-8" />

> Aside from structural differences you must know that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aside from structural differences, you should know:
```

1. AsyncAPI is compatible with OpenAPI schemas.

> 1. Message payload in AsyncAPI can be any value, not just an AsyncAPI/OpenAPI schema. For instance, it could be an Avro schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The message payload in AsyncAPI can be any value, not just an AsyncAPI/OpenAPI schema. For instance, it could be an Avro schema.
```

> 1. [AsyncAPI server object](/docs/specifications/2.2.0/#serverObject) is almost identical to its OpenAPI counterpart with the exception that `scheme` has been renamed to `protocol` and AsyncAPI introduces a new property called `protocolVersion`. AsyncAPI is there to support multiple different protocols, not only HTTP like in case of OpenAPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The [AsyncAPI server object](/docs/specifications/2.2.0/#serverObject) is almost identical to its OpenAPI counterpart, with the exception that `scheme` has been renamed to `protocol` and AsyncAPI introduces a new property called `protocolVersion`. AsyncAPI supports multiple protocols, not only HTTP, like in the case of OpenAPI.
```

1. OpenAPI path parameters and [AsyncAPI channel parameters](/docs/specifications/2.2.0/#parameterObject) are a bit different since AsyncAPI doesn't have the notion of "query" and "cookie", and header parameters can be defined in the [message object](/docs/specifications/2.2.0/#messageObject). Therefore, AsyncAPI channel parameters are the equivalent of OpenAPI path parameters.

## Conclusion

> As you have seen above, OpenAPI and AsyncAPI are similar but the evolution of the specification will bring more differences in the future. In a real-world environment, systems don't have just REST APIs or events but a mix of both. Most of the time, the information flowing in the events is very similar to the one the REST APIs have to handle in requests and responses; thus, being able to reuse schemas is a huge win.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you have seen above, OpenAPI and AsyncAPI are similar, but the specification's evolution will bring more differences in the future. In a real-world environment, systems don't have just REST APIs or events, but a mix of both. Most of the time, the information flowing in the events is very similar to the one the REST APIs have to handle in requests and responses; thus, being able to reuse schemas is a huge win.
```

> Enough reading, it's time to get your hands dirty with some actual examples. Let's learn how to create an AsyncAPI document that defines a "Hello world" application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's learn how to create an AsyncAPI document that defines a "Hello world" application.
```
